obront

medium

# Migrated withdrawals requiring over 25mm gas will be bricked

## Summary

When withdrawals are migrated to Bedrock, a maximum `gasLimit` of 25,000,000 is set. However, since the Ethereum block gas limit is 30,000,000, it is possible that there are withdrawal transactions that are not given sufficient gas to execute.

These withdrawals are vulnerable to be bricked by a user running them with any amount of gas greater than 25mm, but less than required.

## Vulnerability Detail

All withdrawals have their "outer" gas limit set to a value that is computed in the migration script:
```go
func MigrateWithdrawalGasLimit(data []byte) uint64 {
    // Compute the cost of the calldata
    dataCost := uint64(0)
    for _, b := range data {
        if b == 0 {
            dataCost += params.TxDataZeroGas
        } else {
            dataCost += params.TxDataNonZeroGasEIP2028
        }
    }

    // Set the outer gas limit. This cannot be zero
    gasLimit := dataCost + 200_000
    // Cap the gas limit to be 25 million to prevent creating withdrawals
    // that go over the block gas limit.
    if gasLimit > 25_000_000 {
        gasLimit = 25_000_000
    }

    return gasLimit
}
```
This function calculates the cost of the calldata for the transaction and adds 200,000. In the event that this value is greater than 25mm, it hardcodes the resulting `gasLimit` at 25mm.

However, this value is different from the Ethereum block gas limit of 30mm.

As a result, valid transactions that use over 25mm in calldata would have their gasLimit capped, and would allow any other user to finalize the transaction with only 25mm gas, causing the withdrawal to fail and be bricked.

## Impact

Some withdrawals may be vulnerable to being lost due to the gas limit being set too low.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/9b9f78c6613c6ee53b93ca43c71bb74479f4b975/op-chain-ops/crossdomain/migrate.go#L99-L119

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Hard code the gas limit accurately to account for the full Ethereum block gas limit.

Alternatively, since we don't know the exact amount of gas required, remove this logic altogether and encode withdrawals directly on the L1 Cross Domain Messenger to ensure they are replayable.