rvierdiiev

medium

# User can be temporary blocked to prove his transaction after removal of output from L2OutputOracle

## Summary
User can be temporary blocked to prove his transaction after removal of output from L2OutputOracle. He will need to wait till `provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex` output will be posted to L2OutputOracle in order to prove it again as `L2_ORACLE.getL2Output(provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex).outputRoot` will revert.
## Vulnerability Detail
When user withdraws from l2, he uses `L2ToL1MessagePasser.initiateWithdrawal` that creates `WithdrawalTransaction` for him with nonce inside. Then he needs to prove his transaction on l1 using `OptimismPortal.proveWithdrawalTransaction` function.

It's allowed for user to call this function for same transaction in case if he didn't do that yet or output for his `provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex` has changed.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L266-L271
```solidity
        require(
            provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 ||
                L2_ORACLE.getL2Output(provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex).outputRoot !=
                provenWithdrawal.outputRoot,
            "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven"
        );
```
In case if `L2_ORACLE.getL2Output(provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex)` is called for `l2OutputIndex` that is bigger than `L2OutputOracle.latestOutputIndex()`, then [transaction will revert](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L244).

In case if some output is incorrect, then this output and all next outputs [can be removed](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L141-L167) by challenger. 

This makes next situation possible. All numbers here are just to simplify explanation.
1.suppose that last l2OutputIndex inside `L2OutputOracle` is currently 100(just example).
2.user has proved his withdrawal with `provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex == 99`.
3.10 outputs were removed by challenger then last l2OutputIndex inside `L2OutputOracle` now 90.
4. user can't finalize his withdraw, he needs to prove tx again with new l2OutputIndex.  if user wants to prove his withdrawal again he will need to wait till all 99 outputs will be stored again(more 9) because of this check which will try to receive 99th output from `L2OutputOracle` which is not provided anymore.
```solidity
        require(
            provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 ||
                L2_ORACLE.getL2Output(provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex).outputRoot !=
                provenWithdrawal.outputRoot,
            "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven"
        );
```
5.As result user is temporarily blocked to prove his transaction. He can do that only, when 99th output index will be provided.
## Impact
Temporal block of transaction proving.
## Code Snippet
Provided above
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
In case if `L2_ORACLE.latestOutputIndex() < provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex` then allow user to prove his tx again.
```solidity
        require(
            provenWithdrawal.timestamp == 0 ||
                (L2_ORACLE.latestOutputIndex() < provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex ||
                    L2_ORACLE.getL2Output(provenWithdrawal.l2OutputIndex).outputRoot 
                        != provenWithdrawal.outputRoot),
            "OptimismPortal: withdrawal hash has already been proven"
        );
```