Koolex

medium

# Legacy messages that are already relayed can still be finalized

## Summary
Legacy messages that are already relayed can still be finalized.

## Vulnerability Detail
`L1CrossDomainMessenger.relayMessage` checks that the legacy version of the message has not already been relayed as follows:
```solidity
	// If the message is version 0, then it's a migrated legacy withdrawal. We therefore need
	// to check that the legacy version of the message has not already been relayed.
	if (version == 0) {
		bytes32 oldHash = Hashing.hashCrossDomainMessageV0(_target, _sender, _message, _nonce);
		require(
			successfulMessages[oldHash] == false,
			"CrossDomainMessenger: legacy withdrawal already relayed"
		);
	}
```

Therefore, if you try to relay a message that's already been relayed, it will revert. However, `L1CrossDomainMessenger.relayMessage` has to be called for the first time by `OptimismPortal.finalizeWithdrawalTransaction`. 
This means `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` can still succeed for already relayed legacy messages. That's because `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` doesn't care if the call succeeds or not. And for legacy already relayed messages, `relayMessage` will always revert. This causes unnecessary loss of gas and also amplifies the volume of withdrawals finalizations. 

## Impact
Relayers will lose unnecessary amount of gas caused by successfully finalizing already relayed legacy messages. If a relayer is relaying bulk of legacy messages, then the loss is non-trivial.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L307-L313

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

On migration, hash legacy messages (that are already relayed) and mark them as finalized. This way, `OptimismPortal.finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` will revert for those messages.
 
  