Koolex

medium

# Deleting output proposals can not be paused by any role which could possibly lead to critical impact

## Summary
The address of the challenger is immutable while deleting output proposals can not be paused by any role. This could lead to critical impact. Check below for details.

## Vulnerability Detail
The challenger can delete output proposals that are not finalized yet via `L2OutputOracle.deleteL2Outputs` method.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L141

The address of the challenger is immutable and set only once in the L2OutputOracle's `constructor`. Importantly, it can not be updated by any other roles in the system (e.g. Guardian, Sequencer ...etc).

```solidity
	SUBMISSION_INTERVAL = _submissionInterval;
	L2_BLOCK_TIME = _l2BlockTime;
	PROPOSER = _proposer;
	CHALLENGER = _challenger;
	FINALIZATION_PERIOD_SECONDS = _finalizationPeriodSeconds;

	initialize(_startingBlockNumber, _startingTimestamp);
```

The only way to update the address of the challenger is by upgrading the system. Check this note above the immutable `CHALLENGER`
```solidity
    /**
     * @notice The address of the challenger. Can be updated via upgrade.
     */
    address public immutable CHALLENGER;
```

In case of a leakage of challenger's private key, a malcious actor (who got the key) can mess up with the system by deleting all non-finalized output proposals. The actor can keep doing this till Optimism's team perform an upgrade process to update the challanger address which is not a prompt process as the upgrade needs to be done with care. Since no other roles (even the guardian) can stop the malcious actor, the system generally is broken till the upgrade is complete which is a big security impact and can be easily prevented (check the recommendation below).

It's worth mentioning that the guardian can pause proving and finalizing withdrawals in OptimismPortal. Thus, in case of an emerging issue, the gaurdian can pause withdrawals as a last resort. However, the guardian has no possibility to pause deleting L2OutputOracle's outputs in case of an emerging issue such as a key leakage.

## Impact
The system (especially the withdrawal) is broken till a new upgrade is done.

## Code Snippet

Check above

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Give the guardian (who is supposed to gaurd the system) the possibility to pause deleting output proposals. This way, deleting can be paused in case of emergency such as the situation described above. After the team finishes the upgrade, the guardian unpauses deleting. This prevent the system from getting broken in case the challenger's key is compromised.

Note: this is also applicable in case of proposer's key leakage. However, it has less critical impact since the proposals can always be challenged.
 
 
  