unforgiven

medium

# Invalid L2 sender in CrossDomainMessenger

## Summary
The `relayMessage()` function sets the `xDomainMsgSender` before executing the message and resets it to DEFAULT_L2_SENDER afterwards. The intention is to ensure that the sender can be queried during the execution of the message. However, if a top-level message transaction re-enters the `relayMessage()` function (finalizing a different transaction), `xDomainMsgSender` will be set to DEFAULT_L2_SENDER after the inner message and will remain incorrectly set during the rest of the outer message.

It is worth noting that there is a guard condition that prevents reentrancy for relaying the same message. However, it does not prevent a message transaction that finalizes another valid message. To avoid the issue of `xDomainMsgSender` being incorrectly set, consider caching its value before the function call and then resetting it to the cached value after the call.

## Vulnerability Detail
Function `relayMessage()` allows reentrancy for different valid messages, it means when relaying a valid message, the execution flow can reenter `relayMessage()` (directly by relaying failed messages or by finalizing CrossDomainMessage-withdrawal in OptimisimPortal) and execute another message.
This would create an issue for the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` because code resets(set to default) the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` after executing the message(instead of caching and setting it to the old value before):
```solidity
        xDomainMsgSender = _sender;
        bool success = SafeCall.callWithMinGas(_target, _minGasLimit, _value, _message);
        xDomainMsgSender = Constants.DEFAULT_L2_SENDER;
```
if a message1 tries to relay message2, after relaying message2 execution is still in message1 context but the value of the `xDomainMsgSender`  would be `DEFAULT_L2_SENDER` and if codes try to access it it would get wrong value(revert)
This is the scenario that issue happens:
1. Message1 and Message2 are failed message in the CrossDomainMessanger(L1 or L2).
2. Attacker call `relayMessage(Message1)` and `xDomainMsgSender` set to real Message1 sender.
3. during the execution of the Message1, attacker or other code try to call `relayMessage(Message2)` and code would execute that message and set the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` to the DEFAULT_L2_SENDER.
4. now in the rest of the execution of the Message1 the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` would not show the real sender of the Message1.

Of course showing real practical scenario of this issue is hard because different protocols and different users may use CrossDomainMessenger by their needs which can be different scenarios. but the button line is that the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` would not show the correct value for the that message for full duration of the message execution(if another message is relayed) which can cause wrong message execution because contracts would rely on `xDomainMsgSender` to know the real sender of the message from other domain(L1 or L2).

according to the comments:
>     /**
>      * @notice Address of the sender of the currently executing message on the other chain. If the
>      *         value of this variable is the default value (0x00000000...dead) then no message is
>      *         currently being executed. Use the xDomainMessageSender getter which will throw an
>      *         error if this is the case.
>      */
>          address internal xDomainMsgSender;

but in the explained scenario the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` is default but outer message is still executing

One example can be: imagine a ProtocolA which has contracts in L1 and L2 and send message between them by using CrossDomainMessanger and protocol uses ERC777 token. during the execution of the messages protocol may transfer attacker ERC777 tokens and it would call attacker contract and attacker contract can rely another message which would reset the `xDomainMsgSender` and after that if ProtocolA's contract would try to call `CrossDomainMessenger.xDomainMessageSender()` (by catching the revert and not propagating it) it would receive wrong information.

The issue was reported in the (https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/technical-documents/security-reviews/2022_05-Bedrock_Contracts-Zeppelin.pdf) M-04 for the OptimisimPortal's `finalizeWithdraw()` function but the same issue would happen for `relayMesasge()` of CrossDomainMessanger in the current code.

## Impact
If a valid message relies another valid message then the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` would be wrong in the reset of the outer message execution which would cause unexpected result for message execution. attacker can change messages relying results by this.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/9b9f78c6613c6ee53b93ca43c71bb74479f4b975/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/universal/CrossDomainMessenger.sol#L360-L363

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
cache the value of the `xDomainMsgSender` before executing the message and reset to the cache value after executing.
```solidity
       cached_MsgSender = xDomainMsgSender ;
        xDomainMsgSender = _sender;
        bool success = SafeCall.callWithMinGas(_target, _minGasLimit, _value, _message);
        xDomainMsgSender = cached_MsgSender;
```