Koolex

medium

# Initiating withdrawals on L2 is always open (not pausable) which has a non-trivial impact

## Summary
In case of emergency, **OptimismPortal** prove and finalize methods could be paused. However, initiating withdrawals on L2 is always open which has a non-trivial impact.

## Vulnerability Detail
`proveWithdrawalTransaction` and `finalizeWithdrawalTransaction` method of **OptimismPortal** are now pausable. In case of an emergency, the guardian can pause both methods. However, `L2CrossDomainMessenger.sendMessage`  is not pausable. That means, users can still initiate withdrawals on L2 even though they won't be able to finalize it on L1 via **OptimismPortal**. This leads to  unnecessarily funds locked till the emergency situation gets cleared. Although this might seem somewhat acceptable for some users, it impacts protocols with big withdrawals. Please note that protocols might not be aware immediately of an emergency situation in Optimism. Thus, their users are still interacting with the protocol that initiate withdrawals on L2. This has a bigger impact in case the emergency period is long.

Moreever, withdrawers (users who use EOAs and not aware of **OptimismPortal** being paused) could have used a third party bridge if they have known that it's not possible to complete the withdrawal till the emergency situation is finished. 


## Impact
Withdrawals can still be initiated even though **OptimismPortal**'s prove and finalize methods are paused for emergency. Thus, new initiated withdrawals have to wait till the emergency situation gets cleared to complete their withdrawal. This has impact on both users and protocols. However, It has a bigger impact on protocols with big withdrawals especially If the emergency period is long.

## Code Snippet


```sh
function pause() external {
	require(msg.sender == GUARDIAN, "OptimismPortal: only guardian can pause");
	paused = true;
	emit Paused(msg.sender);
}
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L175

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

 Make `L2ToL1MessagePasser.initiateWithdrawal`  pausable. So, it could be paused when OptimismPortal's methods are paused.

  