Koolex

medium

# Big withdrawals can not be halted in case of an emerging issue

## Summary
The withdrawal finalization period is relatively long while withdrawers (such as DeFi protocols) can not halt big withdrawals in case of an emerging issue. 

## Vulnerability Detail
In Bedrock version, Optimism Introduced a fault challenge period (7 days on mainnet). This finalization period is necessary to afford sufficient time for validators to make a fault proof. Because of this architectural design, the withdrawals (from L2 to L1) can not be completed before the finalization period ends.

Proving and finalizing withdrawals is permission-less (i.e. anyone can call it). Which is a great feature. However, a withdrawal's finalization can not be halted by the original sender. This could have a critical security impact for DeFi protocols in some cases. 
Imagine a protocol is performing a withdrawal for a big amount (e.g. 10000 ETH). Due to Bedrock's security model, the protocol has to wait at least 7 days which is not a short time. In these 7 days, if the protocol has an emerging issue (e.g. funds were drained due to an exploit which is not rare nowadays), the protocol can not cancel the withdrawal nor halt it. Thus, leading to an unnecessary additional loss of funds which could be easily prevented. To elaborate more on this, when an attack on a DeFi protocol occurs, the protocol team try to identify the exploit, fix it then perform an upgrade. if the bug is not fixed quickly, the attacker could possibly finalizing the big withdrawal (e.g. 10000 ETH) and steal it through the still existing exploit.

Refs:
[fault proof specs](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/specs/glossary.md#fault-proof)
[withdrawal-flow specs](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/specs/withdrawals.md#withdrawal-flow)


## Impact
A possible loss of funds for DeFi protocols 

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-03-optimism/blob/main/optimism/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/OptimismPortal.sol#L23

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

In OptimismPortal, give a possibility to the withdrawal initiator (original sender) to pause the withdrawal's finalization. This keeps finalizing withdrawals permission-less and add a great security to DeFi protocols.
A simple mapping (address => bool) is good enough to achieve this.
 
  