obront

medium

# Submission interval is unreasonably restricted, bricking migration process or immutably setting incorrect params

## Summary

The `L2OutputOracle` unintentionally blocks reasonable parameter settings for the `SUBMISSION_INTERVAL` and `L2_BLOCK_TIME` variables (including those intended to be used by Bedrock) from being used, resulting in either a bricked migration or an immutable mis-setting of important parameters.

## Vulnerability Detail

`L2OutputOracle.sol` takes in a `_submissionInterval` and ` _l2BlockTime` are arguments to the constructor function.

The Submission Interval is how many L2 blocks can pass until they must be checkpointed on L1 again. It is measured in blocks and is used in the following calculation:
```solidity
function nextBlockNumber() public view returns (uint256) {
    return latestBlockNumber() + SUBMISSION_INTERVAL;
}
```
The L2 Block Time is the number of seconds between L2 blocks. It is used in the following calculation:
```solidity
function computeL2Timestamp(uint256 _l2BlockNumber) public view returns (uint256) {
    return startingTimestamp + ((_l2BlockNumber - startingBlockNumber) * L2_BLOCK_TIME);
}
```
These two variables are completely unrelated and should not influence one another. For example, both of the below parameters are acceptable:
- SI = 1 // L2BT = 6 => we create an L2 block every 6 seconds and post each one to L1
- SI = 12 // L2BT = 1 => we create an L2 block each second but only post to L1 every 12

However, the following check is included in the constructor when these values are immutably set:
```solidity
require(
    _submissionInterval > _l2BlockTime,
    "L2OutputOracle: submission interval must be greater than L2 block time"
);
```
Bedrock intends to use the values of SI == 1 (each L2 block is checkpointed on L1) and L2BT = 2 (there's an L2 block every 2 seconds), which do not pass this check.

## Impact

If these parameters are entereed correctly, the migration process will brick when `L2OutputOracle.sol` deployment fails.

If they are entered incorrectly, these important parameters will be immutably mis-set.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/9b9f78c6613c6ee53b93ca43c71bb74479f4b975/packages/contracts-bedrock/contracts/L1/L2OutputOracle.sol#L100-L103

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Remove this check, as there should be no requirements on the relationship between these two variables.